Let's test fetch.
So this is great.
This test that if we give us breed list,
nothing that it gives us back
an empty list and an unloaded state.
That's exactly what I
would expect from it.
But that's not really the point of
views breed list, use breed list.
If I give it an animal I wanted to call
the API and give me back a list of breeds.
That's actually the point of it.
So lets go a head and make it do that.
I want to install another
library here called
just fetch merch impairment-D,
just-fetch-merch@.3.0.3
This is just a little package that's
going to mock out fetch for us.
We can tell it.
We expect to be called with this.
We expect it to be given back this.
Okay, I want you to go
to your package.json.
And we have to add a little
configuration down here at the bottom.
We gonna say jest,
we gonna say auto mock false.
So don't automatically mock everything.
That was a dark time when Jest used to
do that all that, when it worked it
was fabulous but most of the time it
didn't work and it was horrifying.
It demoed really well though,
people got really stoked about it.
Anyway, that's a history lesson that I
would need several more beers to tell.
And then set up files.
Basically you can say hey just before
you run test run this file to set
up my environment.
So we're going to make one in
source called Source/setup jest or
whatever you want to call your file .js.
Now just we'll run this file
before any of your other files to
make sure that you can set it up.
Okay, cool.
That's all nice.
Don't put this into the test directory,
right?
Because if you put in the test directory,
just is gonna think it's a test.
So don't put it in there, we have to put
in just our normal source directory.
This is gonna be called setupJest.js or
you could make another folder called like
test helpers or something like that,
whatever you wanna do.
This is gonna be super short,
we're gonna say import,
enable, fetch, mocks from just fetch mock.
Then just enable it.
That's all, you just run the function.
It's going to basically patch
in that Jes time environment.
What fetch is supposed to do.
So then that we can basically control how
fetch responds to our use breed list.
All right, so
go back to our use breed list test.
Okay, down underneath this one
we're gonna give it another test.
This one's gonna be say,
gives back breeds with an animal.
Make sure that that is async.
Okay, tell about the breeds
that you care about.
We'll just give it a list of breeds.
You can put whatever you want in here.
I'm gonna give it Havanese Bichon Frise.
Poodle, Maltese.
Golden Retriever.
Labrador, and Husky.
Okay, so just a bunch of dog breeds.
Okay, and then we're gonna patch the fetch
implementation to say
fetch.mockResponseOnce.
And then we're just going to tell it
what to give back whenever the next time
fetches called.
JSON.Stringify.
Animal: dog and breeds.
We're just mocking with that,
API response looks like.
We could get more technical here,
we could test that it calls the right
URL with the right parameters.
In reality all it cares if
it gets back the correct
information that it's given
it back to me correctly.
Okay, so here I'm gonna save fetch sorry.
I did that already, we're gonna do say
const result and wait for next update.
This is just a nice little
helper functions is like
wait until react like all its dust
settles up at three renders, right?
And then check.
I think this is actually a promise.
We'll check here in just
a second render hook.
Same thing up here but
we're gonna give it us breed list, and
we're gonna give it dog.
This is a some sort of function,
it's a function that returns a promise.
That's what it is.
So you say wait for next update.
That is a promise, right?
That doesn't return anything.
At this point,
we can be guaranteed that result.
Whatever result is,
is going to be what we expected.
So we can say const pre list status
equals result.current.
Expect status to be loaded and
expect breed list to equal,
Breeds.
Now important that this is not to be it
would check to see is do I have literally
the same array which is actually,
we don't care about identity here
we just care about equality.
You can give me back to
different arrays as long as they
contain the same things does
every literally the same array.
Actually, this might come back
to be I don't know how it works
underneath the hood, but
doesn't matter to me.
I don't want to test that.
Mpm run, Test watch, and it passes.
So that is how you test fetch.
Questions?
All right, in the past have actually
written code that actually will hit
the API or it will like spin up a fake
API and like hit that, just mock it.
That's nine times out of ten
what you care about anyway.